Introduction to the libac3 API


I - initializing the library

void ac3_init(void);


II - basic information about the ac3 bitstream

int ac3_syncinfo (uint8_t * buf, int * flags,
		  int * sample_rate, int * bit_rate);

The ac3 bitstream is composed of several ac3 frames concatenated one
after each other. An ac3 frams is the smallest unit that can be
independantly decoded in the stream.

Before calling this function, you should read 7 bytes into buf.  Then
this function analyses these bytes and sees if these look like the
start of a valid ac3 frame. If this can not possibly be a valid frame,
then the function returns 0. In that case you should try to
re-synchronize with the ac3 stream - one way to try this would be to
advance buf by one byte until its contents looks like a valid frame,
but there might be better application-specific ways to synchronize.

If buf looks like the start of a valid frame, then this function will
fill flags, sample_rate and bit_rate, and return the total size of the
coded frame in bytes. This size is guaranteed to be between 128 and
3840 bytes. sample_rate will be the sampling frequency in Hz, bit_rate
is for the compressed stream and is in bits per second, and flags is a
description of the coded channels: the AC3_LFE bit is set if there is
an LFE channel coded in this stream, and by masking flags with
AC3_CHANNEL_MASK you will get a value that describes the
full-bandwidth channels, either 0-7 as described in "acmod" in the ac3
standard, or AC3_DOLBY for a stereo stream when the encoder has
specified that the stream was encoded in dolby-stereo.

It is recommended to call this function for each frame, for several
reasons: this function detects errors that the other functions will
not double-check, consecutive frames might have different lengths, and
it helps you re-sync with the stream if you get de-synchronized.


III - start to decode an ac3 frame

int ac3_frame (ac3_state_t * state, uint8_t * buf, int * flags,
               sample_t * level, sample_t bias, sample_t * delay);

Now that you've found an ac3 frame, you want to start decoding it. buf
points to the ac3 frame, and you've read at least the number of bytes
returned by ac3_syncinfo().
